---
title: Hugging Face - Learn Hugging Face Bootcamp
description:
image: /images/e025-01.jpeg
sequence: 030
category: 07. HuggingFace
link:
author:

head:
  meta:
    - name: "keywords"
      content: ""
    - name: "robots"
      content: ""
    - name: "author"
      content: ""
    - name: "copyright"
      content: "© 2024 Security Notes"
    - name: "og:title"
      content: "HR"
publishedAt: 2024-10-09
toc: true
---

## Hugging Face - Learn Hugging Face Bootcamp

- Udemy <a href="https://www.udemy.com/course/complete-hugging-face-bootcamp/?couponCode=KEEPLEARNING">Learn Hugging Face Bootcamp</a>

### Introduciton

- Our course files used in the videos can be found as a .zip file as a resource in this lecture. (https://support.udemy.com/hc/en-us/articles/229604708-Downloading-Course-Resources)
- You can ask questions in the QA Forums (make sure to search first, before posting a new question) Guide on using the QA Forums: https://support.udemy.com/hc/en-us/articles/229233387-How-to-Use-The-Q-A
- Our chat channel to talk to other students can be found here: https://discord.gg/TztE6B8
- We don't control certification, Udemy does, information on this can be found here: https://support.udemy.com/hc/en-us/articles/229603868-Certificate-of-Completion
- Course Slides can be found here:
  - https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1KPNewt6K68qdwYq5bGAauBVjjx0Mr-zz?usp=sharing
  - Please do not request Edit Access to the Slides, we do not let students edit the slides.

<br>

### What is Hugging Face

- What is Hugging Face?  
  Hugging Face is a platform where the **Machine Learning, ML community** collaborates on models, datasets, and applications.
- **Core of Hugging Face**

  **Models**

  - Hugging Face hosts many open-source models, such as LLMs, diffusion based text-to-image models, audio models, and much more!
  - A key advantage of using Hugging Face for this is their CLI tool, which is designed for large model files.
  - Hugging Face CLI tool that we can use for ML files.

  **Datasets**

  - Similar to Models, Hugging Face also hosts datasets for training and evaluation.
  - This can include text data sets, audio data, image data, and more!

  **Spaces**

  - Spaces allows you to easily create a git repository and connect it to hardware compute resources to allow people to use your ML applications on the web.
  - Often these are used to share demos with the ML community using open-source libraries, such as **Gradio**.

  **Open Source Libraries and Docs**

  - Hugging Face creates, manages and documents many open source libraries that are popular the ML space, such as:
    - Transformers: Helps you run pretrained transformers models (most often LLMs or Text models).
    - Diffusers: Meant for diffusion based models (often Text-to-Image models).
    - Gradio: Easily create GUIs for ML applications, often used in HF Spaces.
    - Accelerate
    - Many more!
  - the current organization of many of these libraries:

    - Source Code: On GitHub
    - **Official Docs and Examples: On Hugging Face**

  **Community**

  - Hugging Face is also plays a large role in the ML community online.
  - This includes HF Hub posts, tutorial blogs, a Discourse based forum, and a Discord server.
  - You should feel free to interact and help out with the community as you learn ML with Hugging Face!
