---
title: DarkBERT - Hugging Face s2w-ai/DarkBERT model
description:
image: /images/e031-01.jpeg
sequence: 031
category: 06. DarkBERT
link:
author:

head:
  meta:
    - name: "keywords"
      content: ""
    - name: "robots"
      content: ""
    - name: "author"
      content: ""
    - name: "copyright"
      content: "© 2024 Security Notes"
    - name: "og:title"
      content: "HR"
publishedAt: 2024-10-10
toc: true
---

## DarkBERT - Hugging Face s2w-ai/DarkBERT model

### Reference

- Hugging Face: <a href="https://huggingface.co/s2w-ai/DarkBERT">S2W-ai/DarkBERT</a>

### Description

DarkBERT is available for access upon request. Users may submit their request using the form below, which includes the name of the user, the user’s institution, the user’s email address that matches the institution (we especially emphasize this part; any non-academic addresses such as gmail, tutanota, protonmail, etc. are automatically rejected as it makes it difficult for us to verify your affiliation to the institution) and the purpose of usage. By requesting and downloading DarkBERT, the user agrees to the following: the user acknowledges that the use of this model is restricted to research and/or academic purposes only. Access to the model will be granted after the request is manually reviewed. A request may be declined if it does not sufficiently describe research purposes that follow the ACM Code of Ethics (https://www.acm.org/code-of-ethics). The information provided by the requesting user will not be used in any way except for sending the dataset to the user and keeping track of request history for DarkBERT. By requesting for the model, the user agrees to our collection of the provided information. This model shall only be used for non-profit research purposes and in a manner consistent with fair practice. Do not redistribute this dataset to others. The user should indicate the source of this model (found at the bottom of the page) when using or citing the model in their research or article.
