---
title: TIC Introduction
description:
image: /images/e031-01.jpeg
sequence: 032
category: 09. Threat Intelligence Committee, TIC
link:
author:

head:
  meta:
    - name: "keywords"
      content: ""
    - name: "robots"
      content: ""
    - name: "author"
      content: ""
    - name: "copyright"
      content: "© 2024 Security Notes"
    - name: "og:title"
      content: "HR"
publishedAt: 2024-10-23
toc: true
---

## Threat Intelligence Committee, TIC Introduction

### The purpose of the Threat Intelligence Committee (TIC)

- i. Openly share threat intel and mitigation strategies amongst the TIC so that participating TIC organizations will be more secure because of it.
- ii. Provide context to threat intelligence.
- iii. Disseminate information.
- iv. Analyze and comment on incidents and impact assessments.
- v. Provide threat and high-level mitigation information to CCTX membership through presentations, portal alerts, and webinars as appropriate.
- vi. Provide the bi-weekly recommendation on the Canadian Cyber Threat level.

### The scope includes:

- i. All threats to systems, networks, and information.
- ii. Includes all industry sectors.

<br>

### Canadian Cyber Threat Exchange, CCTX

The CCTX is Canada’s not-for-profit, private-sector cyber threat sharing hub and collaboration centre.

The CCTX was created to build a secure Canada where all organizations, both private and public, collaborate to reduce cyber security risks. We do this in two ways:

First, through the CCTX Data Exchange we gather, enrich, analyze and share cyber threat information across business sectors and from other Canadian and international cyber threat sharing hubs. And we provide actionable cyber threat intelligence with a Canadian focus.

Second, our CCTX Collaboration Centre is a unique forum for cyber professionals to solve problems by exchanging best practices, techniques and insights.

<br>

- Cyber Security Intelligence <a href="https://www.cybersecurityintelligence.com/canadian-cyber-threat-exchange-cctx-9974.html">Canadian Cyber Threat Exchange, CCTX</a>

- <a href="https://cctx.ca/about-cctx/">CCTX WebSite</a>

- [Term Of Reference - CCTX](/files/TIC-101-TermsofReference-ThreatIntelCommittee-Final.pdf){target="\_blank"}

<br>
